Lappeenrannan teknillinen yliopisto

Software Development Skills Front-End, Online course

Onni Riikonen, 390147

2.11.2023
Introduction to workflow and sass
I watched the first video lecture and set up the environment. I had to install node.js, but had VScode  and git already installed. 
Then I installed the live server extension. Then I started doing the first part of the program. 
I had never done anything like this so all was new. Only issue here was that I first installed the node-sass incorrectly, but that was quick fix.

3.11.2023
Homepage and Core Sass/CSS
Watched the second video lecture and made the homepage. Mostly by following the video I kept up pretty well. 
Installing the icons was tricky, because the video is old, there is newer version out. 
I had to google a lot of instructions, but got it eventually. 
I also found out how the text is formatted in the screen by using scss, (color, font, margin, etc.). 
Also added the images, but I thought that was easy, since I have used images in older projects.

5.11.2023
Rotating menu button
I Watched the third video lecture on the rotating menu button. 
I thought this was very complex, and I had to stop the video much more than before. 
Again, the video is very well made, so I kept up nicely. I thought the way the X is made was fun.

9.11.2023
Menu overlay and responsiveness
I dove into the fourth video lecture today. 
I implemented the menu overlay, so site works on smaller screens also. 
Sass mixins were a new difficult thing, but the tutorial was good. 
I think I have a good understanding on some of the scss stuff now. 
There is a clear pattern on how to add something new to the webpage, so adding the responsiveness was new.

10.11.2023
Page with CSS grid
I watched the fifth video. Here I made a new html page. 
This was very similar to the first lesson, where I made the homepage. 
I started by making it possible to change the color to light color, and it still being readable. 
I thought this was kind of pointless, but also it probably was there to show how it can be done. 
This time I had an issue that took a long time to figure out. 
For some reason the grid modules were set weirdly in that the first one was way too big compared to the other two.
I experimented a lot and finally got values to make it look good.

15.11.2023
Work and contact pages
I watched the final video on making the website. 
This was probably the easiest lesson, since it was more of the same that I had done before. 
However, my css file wasn’t updating for some reason, so it took some time to figure out why that was happening.

27.11.2023
Website deployment
This was very difficult for me, and I’m glad I had the Linux course going at the same time, so I could learn about the ssh keys. 
When pushing my code to git it gave the (publickey) issue, and the video didn’t explain that. 
However I finished my Linux project, and the ssh keys were explained well there, so I finally figured out the issue and got my website deployed.




